# Overview
This Accessibility Tool is used to batch-test files for accessibility with the WAVE checker, created by [WebAIM](http://webaim.org). It uses the [WAVE API](https://wave.webaim.org/api/). Once the tool is run, it generates reports in CSV, HTML, and JSON formats. There are two options for these reports - Summary and Details. The Summary report shows the numbers of errors, alerts, features, structure elements, HTML5 and ARIA elements, and contrast violations on a given page. The Detailed report goes further and lists the details of each item that has been flagged by WAVE (ex. "Missing alt text") along with how many of each there are on the page.

# Usage

1. Check that you have a WAVE API key by [logging into the API website](https://wave.webaim.org/api/login). If not, [create a new WAVE API username](https://wave.webaim.org/api/register). An API key will automatically be generated for you and you will get 100 free credits. 
2. If you don't have enough API credits, [order some more](https://wave.webaim.org/api/order). 
3. On the Accessibility Tool, input your WAVE API key. The first time you run a report, it will show that you have 0 credits. Once you have run the first report, it will show the correct number of credits. 
4. Select which type of report you would like to run. A Summary report uses 1 credit **per URL** and a Summary and Detail report uses 2 credits **per URL**.
5. Input the URL of each page you want to test, each on their own line.
6. Click "Submit", and the report will be run. This will take a few seconds for each of the URLs.
7. If you have run a Summary report, you will only see one tab, with the details from each URL on each row of the table. Clicking on each of the URLs in the list will bring you to the full report generated by WAVE for that page.
8. The Summary and Detail report contains a second tab with further information about each page.
9. You can download reports in CSV, HTML, and JSON formats. Choose "Export" and a menu will appear where you can choose which type of export you want and what you would like to name the file. The types of reports are as follows:

	* CSV: This will create a spreadsheet with the data. This could be used to import data into another program, or as a way to see all the data together and work with it. This file can be opened in Microsoft Excel or any other spreadsheet program.
	* HTML: This generates a report similar to what you see on the main Accessibility Tool page, except it is available offline and can be accessed anytime. It is the most visual out of all the formats. Once the file has downloaded, clicking on it will open it in your default internet browser. It can also be edited in a plain-text editor.
	* JSON: This directly shows the output from the WAVE API call. It can be opened and edited in a plain-text editor and could be used as an import into another program.
	
To install on your local machine, use the steps shown in [the repository's Readme file](README.md).
